---
author: Devadathan M B
pubDatetime: 2024-08-25T15:20:35Z
title: Why CS50 is goated?
featured: true
draft: true
tags:
  - cs50
  - software dev
  - computer science
  - course
description: Why I think CS50 is still goated?
---

## Table of contents

## What is CS50?

**Disclaimer**: I'm writing this based on my experience with CS50 in 2020. Some aspects of the course might have changed since then, and the structure may differ slightly now. The goal of this blog is to reflect on my journey through CS50 and to express my gratitude to the CS50 team once again.

CS50 is an introductory course to computer science offered by Harvard University. But don't let the "introductory" label fool you—this is one course that even experienced software developers might find challenging. While some might call it easy just to flex, the reality is that CS50 is not a walk in the park. However, it's the perfect course to set you on the right path in every way. The course is led by Professor David Malan (more on him later) and is completely free. The lectures are updated annually with minor improvements and better quality, and the course attracts thousands of students worldwide.

CS50 spans 10 weeks, starting with Scratch, a visual programming language. If you're laughing at that, try it out—I'll wait to hear back when you're crying over solving Tideman! Scratch might seem simple, but don't underestimate it. The course quickly ramps up to C, and the difficulty escalates fast. From there, it moves on to SQL and ends with some web programming, culminating in a final project.

Each week includes quizzes and problem sets that you must complete to receive a grade. You can work at your own pace, which is where the real learning happens. Some problem sets are easy, while others—like Tideman—can be extremely tough. Some may take just a few minutes, while others might take days. Some weeks even offer an advanced problem set, which, as the name suggests, is really difficult.

More details on my journey through CS50 to come later.
